>> Francesca Sadikin: So
what is considered quality code?
When I was learning how to code,
I knew my code sucked, but
I thought I was going to learn what
quality code looked like when I was
joining a big company and
I was gonna be paid to code.
But you might be surprised that
the code you see in companies, big and
small, can sometimes suck for
many reasons.
So you can't use what you see
as a good pattern to copy.
So this is my question for you all,
what is considered quality code?
>> Speaker 2: It meets the user's needs,
>> Francesca Sadikin: Meets the user's
need, okay?
>> Speaker 2: Somewhat flexible to
expanding use cases, its performance.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yes, are these your
answers or [LAUGH] answers for this?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, they're my answers.
It's subjective, right?
>> Francesca Sadikin: It's subjective,
okay.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, so different people
have different opinions on it, but.
Yeah, I think,
the first thing that Mark said was good
where does it solve the problem at hand.
>> Francesca Sadikin: Yes,
definitely important.
>> Speaker 2: I'll read a few from online.
>> Speaker 3: I think the very first
thing is, he has to solve the problem.
And then the second thing is,
he has to be readable.
You have to comment it out so
that people can see what you're doing.
Other people can work on your code.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, that's online.
Folks said, self-documenting,
easy to understand by a new person,
not spaghetti like logic,
jumping around everywhere.
They're a lot focused on writing
code that will be read by people.
It's easy to read,
maintain, and extend, yeah.
>> Francesca Sadikin: That's a lot
of- Yes, a lot of great answers, and
I hear the answer that I was
going to give also in there.
So essential I believe that at the heart
of it, code is going to change.
So good quality code, good code and
I heard this answer as well,
it's maintainable code,
which means it's easy to keep stable and
it's easy to change, so it's extendable.
So I think that tactics such as readable
code, unit tests, performing code and
all of it, of course, solving
the real requirements that was given.
These are all techniques to
make it more maintainable.
Maintainable code is also often simple and
straightforward.
So readable code will always trump clever
code that is somewhat unreadable in
a professional setting because it just
makes it easier for others to come in,
quickly understand what's happening and
make modifications.
Let's not forget,
working code is always going to be more
important than clean and perfect code.
And balancing the delivery of features and
accruing technicals that is a delicate
balance that every company and
every team will be engaging
in moving forward.
So here's just a little rundown
of some clean code basics.
A lot of these I learned through
this book called Clean Code,
a Handbook of Agile Software Craftsmanship
by Robert C Martin,
I think that's a very popular book for
engineers.
But for a few of you who may
not have seen that before,
just a few tactics are to use descriptive
naming, lean into maybe even longer,
more descriptive naming
versus very vague things.
Writing decoupled code, so that just means
that different parts of your code base
are independent and
don't rely too heavily on each other.
Essentially, it helps you avoid a tangled
mess where changing one part breaks
everything else.
Follow the single
responsibility principle.
That's a very fancy way of just saying
that whatever size of code you're working
with, whether it's functions or
modules or libraries,
each one should hopefully
have a single responsibility.
Again, makes it easier for
people to understand what this should do.
Having a clear organization of code
that applies to the way you're
organizing your code and
then also maybe in your folder hierarchy.
My little rule that I follow is that
things that change together should stay
together.
So, for example, you have a React
component, all of its tests and
helper functions should stay
in the same directory as it,
that just makes it easier for
engineers coming in.
When they make a change here, they can
quickly check the related files to make
sure that there's nothing else
that's gonna break unexpectedly.
Using comments appropriately, so
comments should describe why the code
is there and not what and how.
Because ideally the code should be
readable enough that people can
read what's going on.
The other reason is that when you describe
what and how when people refactor
their code, it's very easy for
them to forget to update the comments and
now we just have a very confusing
thing for future engineers.
Avoiding code duplication,
so this one's kind obvious.
If you copy and paste things multiple
places, it's very prone to human error,
you're gonna forget to update things
in all the different pace, right?
And depending on your company culture,
you should also be adding test
coverage and writing good tests.
So a huge part of writing
maintainable code is writing tests.
So we're gonna talk about one of the
biggest strengths in my own software skill
set that helps me deliver good quality
work, which is test driven development.
If you don't know anything
about test-driven development.
Essentially, it just means you start with
test before you write the feature code.
And so what that would look
like in a process is that.
Let's say you had a big project, you're
gonna break that down into different
conditions, and then so you're going
to start with a single condition,
write a failing test for it, and then make
that test pass by writing the source code.
And then you just repeat this process
over and over and over again, and
every time you see an opportunity to
refactor because a pattern has emerged,
that's when you refactor, and
then you do this until it's done.
So that's really all it is.